Who is Hobo for?
{.document-title}

## Beginners

Hobo is very attractive to beginners, and it's not hard to understand
why. Watch the [screencast](/tutorials/screencast) or try the [two minute
demo](/tutorials/two-minutes) to see how appealing Hobo can be. That's
a full server side, database-backed web side created lickety-split,
without being intimidated.

There are a very large number of things one has to learn to create full-featured web
sites. HTML, CSS and Javascript for sure. Probably jQuery. Add Ruby
and Rails is you're using that or their equivalents if you're learning
a different framework. You need to learn how to operate and interact
with your database or data-store of choice.

We're not saying that you don't have to learn all of that if you want
to use Hobo. We're saying that you can *delay* learning that with
Hobo. This is similar to the relationship between Rails & SQL. You can
create a very impressive Rails site without knowing SQL. But learning
SQL will give you another tool in your toolbox that you can use to
make the site better and faster.

But not having to learn SQL at the beginning has two very important
benefits. First of all, it lets you concentrate your learning on
things that are more immediately applicable to you. Secondly, when you
do get around to learning SQL, it's a lot easier because you're
immediately applying what you learn, and you can watch your own web
site interact with a database and learn by example.

In the same way that Rails lets you delay learning SQL, Hobo lets you
delay learning CSS, Javascript, jQuery, et al. You'll probably need to
learn them eventually, but in the meantime you will have a full custom
server-side database-backed ajax-powered Web 2.0 web site.

## Advanced Programmers

If you can already make Rails sing and dance however you want it to,
what advantages does Hobo bring to the table?

A Hobo application is generally dramatically smaller than an
equivalent Rails application. Less code means less maintenance, which
is usually the biggest cost over the long term for any program. Less
code also means fewer decisions that you have to make. Instead you can
spend your limited time and brain power on the code and decisions that
are important to your site. If Hobo's "convention ove rconfiguration"
chooses the wrong default, it's easy enough to over-ride. But you can
delay that decision until it's absolutely necessary rather than having
to guess before your site is functional.

Another benefit that Hobo brings to the table is a powerful mechanism
for view code re-use. In a typical Rails app, many pages share
components. In vanilla Rails, you generally share view code through
the use of partials or by creating jQuery components. This works, but
DRYML tags are much easier and intuitive to parameterize. They also
integrate into your application much more seamlessly. Don't Repeat
Yourself. It's right in the name of our template language.

Speed of development is another huge benefit that Hobo brings to the
table. Create prototypes right in front of your customer, making it
much easier to capture requirements. Bring that prototype home and
instead of throwing it away, build it up. Next time you're with the
customer, prototype some new features without bodging up your existing
code. Because with Hobo fast doesn't mean loose, it just means that
you're going with a few more defaults than your final code will
contain.
